Date Created: Monday, 07/15/2019

Project Title: Python and filter()

Project Description:

According to python.org, "Python is a programming language that lets you work more quickly and integrate
your systems more effectively." Python has multipe functions to execute with one of them being a filter.
filter() is a built-in function that "construct[s] an iterator from those elements of iterable for which
function returns true" (https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#filter). For the Python Bikeshare
Project, a filter was applied so the user gained an interactive experience based on his or her answer to
the questions; for instance, selecting a specific city and month from a list of options would result in a
set of statistics related to that selection.

Files Used:

To install Python, the most recent (and past versions) are available via python.org with instructions pro-
vided for easy step-by-step instructions. Files used for this particular portion of the Bikeshare Project
were three datasets available via .csv file: chicago, new_york_city, and washington. These files were down-
loaded directly from Udacity with the links provided in the project sub-lessons (Chicago Dataset- https://
www.divvybikes.com/system-data; NYC Dataset-https://www.citibikenyc.com/system-data; DC Dataset- https://
www.capitalbikeshare.com/system-data).

Additionally, Pandas and NumPy were imported in order to provide an open-sourced library and scientific
computing package needed to complete the project. Per pandas.pydata.org, "the easiest way to install pandas
is to install it as part of the Anaconda distribution...This is the recommended installation method for most
users." As for NumPy, numpy.org "strongly recommend[s] using a scientific Python distribution."

Furthermore, Code Writer allowed for thorough construction and tracking of the applied code, and the use of
the Udacity workspace environment was employed for Python scripting and project submission. Code Writer is a
free text and code editor app available to download via microsoft.com.

Credits:

Several sources were utilized during the project completion process, mainly the videos and transcripts made
available throughout the Python course. Secondary to these Udacity resources were the Student Hub and Know-
ledge posts that provided a better understanding of any issues encountered when carrying out each project
task, and solutions to said problems. If any answers to questions could not be answered directly from the
resources directly provided by Udacity, then articles were read and reviewed via stackoverflow.com.
